{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11904\paperh16836\margl1440\margr1440\vieww8980\viewh12020\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 Quest of Magic\
\

\b0 Version 1.1.1\
Started: 16/Feb/08\
Original release: 17/Jul/08\
Version release: 17/Oct/08\
\
Created by Roguesoft\
www.roguesoft.co.uk
\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Game Controls:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
Use the arrow keys to move your character around and spacebar to "confirm" actions in battle mode. Use the mouse to click buttons such as Examine and Menu.\
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Gameplay Tips:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
You can examine NPCs (non player characters) to talk to them. Some NPCs have special actions which activate when talked to, such as item vendors and healers.\
\
If you can't find the exit to a dungeon, it's likely hidden behind a locked door or a secret wall. Search for keys in treasure chests or secret passages in the walls.\
\
Your HP regenerate as you walk around a dungeon. A good tactic is to get behind a wall where enemies can't reach you and walk back and forth until your HP reach full again. Your HP regenerate as you walk around the overworld as well, but at a much slower rate.\
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Troubleshooting:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
The Quest of Magic alias sometimes breaks when transfered over the internet. I'm not sure why this happens, but the source file is located in the Resources folder. It's named Quest of Magic.\
\
If you experience any other problems feel free to contact me on the Roguesoft forums or email me at dropsilveraline@yahoo.co.uk\
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 Credits
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Art, Music, Programming, Design and pretty much everything else by:
\b0 \
Silverwind\
\

\b Creative Consultants:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 My Dad\
Woodhaven\
Sora\
Jinxycat\
\
Music composed in GarageBand.\
\
Created with Mac GameMaker.\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Special Thanks:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 To everyone on the Game Maker's Garage for beta testing and feature suggestions.\
\
To Al Staffieri Jr. without whom I'd still be making RPG's on paper.\
\
To my Mum and Dad for endless support and putting up with my constant "Look what I've programmed now!\
\
And to you, for playing my game.\
\
}