{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15660\viewh12660\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 ***** ReadMe Document for GameMaker v3.9.95 Demo *****
\b0 \
\
\

\b ----- ABOUT GAMEMAKER -----
\b0 \
GameMaker is \'a91995-2011 by Al Staffieri Jr.\
\
This is a demo version of GameMaker. The demo version has all the same features as the full version except that it can't compile stand-alone games and has a maximum of 15 lines of code per script. It may be freely distributed as long as the entire package is kept intact and unmodified. You may NOT bundle GameMaker with commercial products without written permission from Al Staffieri Jr. You can purchase the full version of GameMaker v3.9.95 for $20. You may then create as many games as you like and distribute them to anyone without owing any additional fees. To order the full version, send a check or Money Order (U.S. funds only) to:\
\
Al Staffieri Jr.\
1061 Crestwood Dr.\
Williamstown, NJ 08094\
Attn: GameMaker\
\
You can also order online through PayPal.com at:\
https://www.paypal.com/xclick/business=AlStaff@aol.com&undefined_quantity=1&item_name=GameMaker&item_number=1002&amount=20.00\
\
You can E-mail your comments, suggestions, and bug reports to:\
AlStaff@aol.com\
\
Visit my Web Page for the latest updates, info, and other software:\
http://www.macgamemaker.com\
\
\

\b ----- SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS -----
\b0 \
* Mac OS 10.1 or better\
\
\

\b ----- KNOWN ISSUES -----
\b0 \
* GameMaker may still have problems when encountering a full disk. It is highly recommended that you use a Hard drive with lots of free space and always keep a backup copy of your project (see "Disk Space & Files").\
\
* There is approximately a 16Mb limit for GameMaker projects and applications. Creating a project that is larger than 16Mb can corrupt your project or cause GameMaker to crash. You should use external files for large games. See IMAGEFILE, MOVIE, and SPRITE commands for ways to use external files.\
\
* GameMaker will not run on locked or read only media such as a CD. If you received GameMaker on CD, drag the entire folder to your hard drive and run it from there.\
\
\

\b ----- CREDITS -----
\b0 \
Programming, documentation, graphics templates, and most icon designs are by Al Staffieri Jr.\
\
This version of GameMaker was compiled on a 500Mhz iMac DV SE using Staz Software's FutureBASIC.\
\
New logo design by JaDaCo Entertainment  <www.jadaco.net>\
\
Thanks to Matthew Reagan, David A. Bailey, and Robert Purves for help with the Paint Fill tool.\
\
Thanks to Mike Richardson <silvernetwork.net> for creating GameMaker addons such as GMOnline, GM Toolkit, and others.\
\
Thanks to Peter Burrington, Brandon Ballinger, Daniel Howard, Sean Beach, Jason Steele, John Monarch, Fred Hope, Matt Beedle, and others for beta testing and feature suggestions.\
\
Special thanks to all registered users.\
\
\

\b ----- ABOUT AL -----
\b0 \
Born: 3/9/67\
Height: 5' 9"\
Weight: 185 lbs.\
Eyes: Brown\
Hair: Dark Brown\
Education: Graduated Williamstown High School, 1985\
Hobbies: Bowling, computer programming, video games, watching movies, NJ shore, cooking, cuddling, Coka-Cola, pizza, apple pies\
\
\

\b ----- DISCLAIMER -----
\b0 \
This software is distributed AS IS. The author hereby disclaims all warranties relating to this software, whether express or implied, including without limitation any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. The author will not be liable for any special, incidental, consequential, indirect or similar damages due to loss of data or any other reason, even if advised of the possibility of such damages. The user of this software bears all risk as to its quality and performance.\
\

\b ***** END README DOCUMENT *****}